
# Basic Roadmap

## NIEM 5.2

During the development of NIEM 5.2 (2022), migrate existing functionality over to the new version of the API.

Feature | Dependencies | Description
--- | --- | ---
Design <br/> *(in progress)* | | Design and prep work for the new database, CMF, API
Set up <br/> *(in progress)* | | Set up API infrastructure, testing, CI/CD, etc.
Model mgt | Design, Set up | Set up new database, implement CRUD operations and user access controls
Search | Model mgt | Simple and advanced NIEM search; return results described via CMF
XSD | Model mgt | Read and write NIEM XML schemas from CMF; support older NDR versions
QA | Model mgt | Run NDR and additional modeling tests on CMF data; generate report
CRs | Model mgt | Check change request spreadsheet format; import changes into model
Migrations | Model mgt | Compare models to generate migration data; leverage CRs and mappings to provide additional info
Docs | Model mgt | Generate spreadsheets and other documentation from CMF data
Wantlists | Model mgt | Transform between wantlists and CMF for SSGT / IEPD subset support
Release builder | Model mgt | Assemble artifacts generated by other modules to build and publish a new release
XSD validation | Set up | Provide ConTesA functionality via the API
Update tools | Search, XSD, <br/> XSD validation | Update NIEM tools (SSGT, Migration Tool, ConTesA) to use the new API

## NIEM 6.0

During the development of NIEM 6.0 (2023), the plan is to complete any remaining milestones from the previous phase, and to add support for new functionality. This may include the following, with the priorities yet to be determined:

Feature | Description
--- | ---
Transformers | Transform between CMF and other NIEM formats, which may include: <br/> JSON, OWL, RDF, UML, SimpleNIEM, Protobuf, other formats
OpenAPI | Provide API support for IEPDs
IEPD support | Validate a NIEM IEPD / Message Spec (not just the XML schemas inside via ConTesA), read IEPD catalogs, harvest extensions, etc.
Bindings | Build language-specific classes for local models
Business rules | Support business rules via SimpleNIEM, Schematron, etc.
SSGT, Movement | Update tools | Determine how to move forward with these tools.  Consolidate functionality into one open source tool?
Mappings |  Support a simple mapping spreadsheet.  Capture and leverage mapping data and integrate with searches.
